[ADD] shopify_connector: add module documentation (#19309)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/sales/shopify_connector/setup.rst

:orphan:

.. _Odoo-SH: http://odoo.sh/
.. _access-tokens: https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/build/authentication-authorization/access-tokens/generate-app-access-tokens-admin
.. _shopify-account-configuration: https://youtu.be/n0_MO0CWo6s?si=nZMuNXrLjqS248S1
.. _set-up-shopify-connector: https://youtu.be/6SHsfl8gVbk?si=gTvEzvDFInlRafEP

===============================
Shopify Connector configuration
===============================

Odoo allows users to register one or more Shopify stores in the database. Each Shopify store
requires a separate account configuration in Odoo, and orders, products, and inventory are scoped
per connected store.

.. seealso::
   - `Tutorial: Configure a Shopify connector account <shopify-account-configuration_>`_
   - `Tutorial: Set up the Shopify connector <set-up-shopify-connector_>`_

.. _shopify/setup/prerequisites:

Prerequisites
=============

This integration only works with Odoo-SH_ and requires version 19.0. Before configuring the *Shopify
connector*, users need the following:

- A Shopify account

> - Odoo **Sales** app

Author: - if someone would have Shopify app, then sales app would be auto installed.

Reviewer: I will add in () this information.  I still want to keep it in the list to make it clear that the Sales app is necessary.

- The **Shopify connector** app

.. tip::
   It’s recommended to have the Odoo database and Shopify account dashboard in different tabs in the
   same browser for the setup.

.. _shopify/setup/create-account-form:

Create Shopify account in Odoo
==============================

.. important::
   User must be in :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode/activation>` to configure the Shopify
   account form.

To create a new Shopify account, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration -->
Accounts`. Alternatively, from the Odoo home page, start typing `Shopify` to open the
:menuselection:`Sales --> Configuration --> Accounts` menu item. Then, click :guilabel:`New`.

On the blank *Shopify account form* page, start by:

#. Choose a name for the account (e.g., American Marketplace).
#. Select :guilabel:`Shopify` for the :guilabel:`E-commerce Channel`.
#. Select an option from the :guilabel:`Delivery Handled On` drop-down menu: :guilabel:`Odoo` or
   :guilabel:`E-commerce Platform`.

To learn more about how each option affects the delivery flow, refer to the
:ref:`shopify/fulfillment/delivery-modes` section on the *Shopify deliveries, accounting, and

> returns* page.

Author: - the title of page is Shopify delivery and return management.

.. _shopify/setup/authentication:

Select an authentication method
-------------------------------

In the *Credentials* tab of the Shopify account form, select an authentication method for the
:guilabel:`Authorization Type` field:

- :guilabel:`Oauth`: Mandatory for stores created on or after January 1, 2026.
- :guilabel:`Self Access`: An admin API Access Token. Stores created before January 1, 2026 can use
  this method.

If using the :guilabel:`Self Access` option, refer to Shopify's `access-tokens`_ page.

If using the :guilabel:`Oauth` option, click the :guilabel:`Copy App URL` button.

.. image:: setup/shopify-account-form.png
   :alt: Example of a Shopify account form with Oauth option selected.

.. _shopify/setup/administrative-settings:

Configuring administrative settings
-----------------------------------

.. important::
   To change any of the *Configuration* tab settings, the Shopify account form must be disconnected.
   If the account is already connected, first disconnect it, change the required settings, and then

>    connect the account again.

Author: - we have recently changed this, we are allowing to change the setting even when the account is connected, but now we have added a chatter in account configuration so any change will be logged.

Switching to the Odoo browser tab, paste these into the :guilabel:`Shopify Client Id` and
:guilabel:`Shopify Client Secret` in the *Credentials* tab.

Next, switch back to the Shopify browser tab and click the app's name. Click :guilabel:`Install
app`, then on the new page select the Shopify store to link to Odoo, and click :guilabel:`Install`.

After installing the app in the Shopify store, the page is automatically redirected to the Shopify
account form in Odoo with the *Operations* tab open. Verify that the app is connected by checking
the account connection status in the top-right corner. Click the :guilabel:`Credentials` tab and
confirm that the access token has been fetched in the :guilabel:`Shopify Access Token` field.

.. image:: setup/shopify-access-token.png
   :alt: Example of the Credentials tab when a Shopify account form is connected.

.. _shopify/setup/multi-store:

Multi-store and multi-company management
========================================

The **Sales** app supports configuring multiple Shopify stores under the same Odoo company. Each
Shopify store requires a Shopify account form and operates independently, with its own sync

> timestamps and configuration. All orders, products, and inventory are scoped per connected Shopify

Author: - here there's a catch, that if user maps the same internal Odoo location with 2 different store locations of different stores then the inventory wouldn't be scoped per account.

Reviewer: Hi @ampa-odoo, is this additional text accruate?

"The only exception is when the same internal Odoo location is synced with more than one Shopify
store locations then the inventory for those Shopify account forms are synced with the internal Odoo
location."

- :guilabel:`App URL`: Paste the copied URL from the :ref:`Credentials tab
  <shopify/setup/authentication>` of the Create a Shopify account form.
- Turn off the :guilabel:`Embed app in Shopify admin` checkbox.
- :guilabel:`Webhooks API version`: 2026-01

  .. note::
     Check the *Release Notes* page on the Shopify connector's app store page for the latest version
     of the Webhooks API.

- In the *Access* section, ensure the *Scopes* tab is selected. Then copy the following code block
  and paste it into the tab:
  `read_assigned_fulfillment_orders,write_assigned_fulfillment_orders,read_customers,write_inventory,read_inventory,read_locations,read_merchant_managed_fulfillment_orders,write_merchant_managed_fulfillment_orders,read_orders,read_products,read_third_party_fulfillment_orders,write_third_party_fulfillment_orders,read_fulfillments,write_fulfillments,read_returns`

.. image:: setup/shopify-app-config.png
   :alt: Example of a Shopify app with the recommended settings.

Click the :guilabel:`Release` button at the top of the page, then click :guilabel:`Release` again to
release the app with the version name.

.. _shopify/setup/connect-shopify-to-odoo:

> Connect Shopify to Odoo

Reviewer: I have added an important highlight stating to follow the steps in this section to reconnect a Shopify app to an existing Shopify account form.

:orphan:
:nosearch:

.. _Odoo-SH: http://odoo.sh/
.. _access-tokens: https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/build/authentication-authorization/access-tokens/generate-app-access-tokens-admin
.. _shopify-account-configuration: https://youtu.be/n0_MO0CWo6s?si=nZMuNXrLjqS248S1
.. _set-up-shopify-connector: https://youtu.be/6SHsfl8gVbk?si=gTvEzvDFInlRafEP

===============================
Shopify Connector configuration
===============================

Odoo allows users to register one or more Shopify stores in the database. Each Shopify store
requires a separate account configuration in Odoo, and orders, products, and inventory are scoped
per connected store.

.. seealso::
   - `Tutorial: Configure a Shopify connector account <shopify-account-configuration_>`_
   - `Tutorial: Set up the Shopify connector <set-up-shopify-connector_>`_

.. _shopify/setup/prerequisites:

Prerequisites
=============

This integration only works with Odoo-SH_ and requires version 19.0. Before configuring the *Shopify
connector*, users need the following:

- A Shopify account
- The **Shopify connector** app
- Odoo **Sales** app (this app auto-installs with the **Shopify connector** app)

.. tip::

>    It’s recommended to have the Odoo database and Shopify account dashboard in different tabs in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   It's recommended to have the Odoo database and Shopify account dashboard in different tabs in the
```

   same browser for the setup.

.. _shopify/setup/create-account-form:

Create Shopify account in Odoo
==============================

.. important::

>    User must be in :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode/activation>` to configure the Shopify

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Users must be in :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>` to configure the Shopify
```
any reason why we're linking to developer-model/activation specifically? we typically just do developer-mode

Reviewer: I try to hyperlink to instructions in case the user doesn't know how to activate it.

   account form.

To create a new Shopify account, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration -->

> Shopify:Accounts`. Alternatively, from the Odoo home page, start typing `Shopify` to open the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Shopify: Accounts`. Alternatively, from the Odoo home page, start typing `Shopify` to open the
```

-------------------------------

In the *Credentials* tab of the Shopify account form, select an authentication method for the
:guilabel:`Authorization Type` field:

- :guilabel:`Oauth`: Mandatory for stores created on or after January 1, 2026.
- :guilabel:`Self Access`: An admin API Access Token. Stores created before January 1, 2026 can use
  this method.

If using the :guilabel:`Self Access` option, refer to Shopify's `access-tokens`_ page.

If using the :guilabel:`Oauth` option, click the :guilabel:`Copy App URL` button.

.. image:: setup/shopify-account-form.png
   :alt: Example of a Shopify account form with Oauth option selected.

.. _shopify/setup/administrative-settings:

Configuring administrative settings
-----------------------------------

The *Configuration* tab settings can be changed anytime, even while the Shopify account is
connected. All changes are logged in the account form's chatter. These settings control how data is
imported and processed:

- :guilabel:`Create Products`: Controls what happens when a Shopify product is pulled and no Odoo
  product matches it. Odoo always looks for a product whose internal reference equals the Shopify
  SKU.

>   When enabled, if no match is found, a new Odoo product is created from the Shopify data. Once a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When enabled, if no match is found, a new Odoo product is created from the Shopify data. Once an
```

  offer is mapped, its title and Shopify identifiers are refreshed on every pull, regardless of this

>   setting. However, the mapped Odoo product itself is not updated afterward, since cost weight,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  setting. However, the mapped Odoo product itself is not updated afterward, since cost, weight,
```

     of the Webhooks API.

- In the *Access* section, ensure the *Scopes* tab is selected. Then copy the following code block
  and paste it into the tab:
  `read_assigned_fulfillment_orders,write_assigned_fulfillment_orders,read_customers,write_inventory,read_inventory,read_locations,read_merchant_managed_fulfillment_orders,write_merchant_managed_fulfillment_orders,read_orders,read_products,read_third_party_fulfillment_orders,write_third_party_fulfillment_orders,read_fulfillments,write_fulfillments,read_returns`

.. image:: setup/shopify-app-config.png
   :alt: Example of a Shopify app with the recommended settings.

Click the :guilabel:`Release` button at the top of the page, then click :guilabel:`Release` again to
release the app with the version name.

.. _shopify/setup/connect-shopify-to-odoo:

Connect Shopify to Odoo
=======================

.. important::
   This process also applies to reconnecting a Shopify app to an existing Shopify account form.

Navigate to the Shopify app's *Settings* page by clicking :guilabel:`Settings` in the navigation
bar. Copy the :guilabel:`Client ID` and :guilabel:`Client Secret` from the *Credentials* section.

> Switching to the Odoo browser tab, paste these into the :guilabel:`Shopify Client Id` and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Switch to the Odoo browser tab, paste these into the :guilabel:`Shopify Client Id` and
```

> :guilabel:`Shopify Client Secret` in the *Credentials* tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Shopify Client Secret` fields in the *Credentials* tab.
```

After installing the app in the Shopify store, the page is automatically redirected to the Shopify
account form in Odoo with the *Operations* tab open. Verify that the app is connected by checking
the account connection status in the top-right corner. Click the :guilabel:`Credentials` tab and
confirm that the access token has been fetched in the :guilabel:`Shopify Access Token` field.

.. image:: setup/shopify-access-token.png
   :alt: Example of the Credentials tab when a Shopify account form is connected.

.. _shopify/setup/multi-store:

Multi-store and multi-company management
========================================

The **Sales** app supports configuring multiple Shopify stores under the same Odoo company. Each
Shopify store requires a Shopify account form and operates independently, with its own sync
timestamps and configuration. All orders, products, and inventory are scoped per connected Shopify
store. Multi-company environments are supported, with a separate configuration per company.

The only exception is when the same internal Odoo location is synced with more than one Shopify

> store locations then the inventory for those Shopify account forms are synced with the internal Odoo

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
store location: the inventory for those Shopify account forms is synced with the internal Odoo
```
